# An Essay as a response to “An industry guide to becoming a software engineer.” by Bill Langenberg:

[Link] (https://tuftsdev.github.io/WebProgramming/notes/blangenberg.pdf)

	Looking through the presentation by **Bill Langenberg**, I have to say that I have mixed feelings about it. What I mean by that, is that the information is excellent, very helpful and detailed, but on the other hand, at certain spots, I’m almost intimidated by it.
	It seems to me, like I have the very basics of each of the topics that is discussed, but that’s about it. No deeper knowledge or skills. Although I have to say, that I think, that I’m technically gifted, and there are many things from the technical or computer realm, that I understand without having to learn anything new right out-of-the-box. I’m feeling like an excited first or second-grader, hungry for what’s to come next. 
	I did a lot of programming, as a kid in my early teen years (mostly in *Turbo Pascal* and a little bit of *C*), but those things weren’t well supported back then (20+ years ago) in Czechoslovakia. At least not in terms of learning for teenagers. You had to be self-made. I did have a mentor, but it wasn’t enough. So I abandoned it. Now I’m getting back into it through college. **Exciting times!** In the meantime, I did proceed to acquire some other useful skills like communication, efficiency, interpersonal relationships, sales, persuasion skills and many other ones.
Personally, I think that the **technical skills** are just as important as the **communication skills**. In a software company, we will always work as a team and it’s necessary to acquire skills of team working, getting trust in one another, relying on each other, communicating any technical issues or problems, sharing ideas, etc.
	I’d really like to broaden my skills in Linux script writing, as well as efficient programming/coding and I would also like to get involved in some interesting group projects in class that we’d finish, and that would be somehow useful in the real production world. Something **tangible** accomplished. As far as Linux, those long meaningful script commands, where you can accomplish a lot with just one line fascinate me. I want to get deeper understanding of those. Also, I am completely unfamiliar with any security implementations. That is a very good area to get educated in. Like, for example, the *RSA keys*, get to know *security vulnerabilities* (how to exploit them and how to defend myself against them). 
	I also read the link within the article, by Dan Blumenthal, about what to do with your summer, in case you don’t have a job for intern in the field, which was very interesting, too. There were several great suggestions to keep yourself occupied with work in the field. Although, sometimes it’s a little hard to be hard on yourself, if you don’t have somebody (an employer) behind you telling you what you have to do...
	I can’t wait for the second half of the semester in my Linux class with Mr. Harmon. It’s promising to shift gears, get some serious knowledge and skills under the hood and work on some exciting projects!
